now to Gaza where negotiations over a
plan to end the war are scheduled to
start in Qatar on Thursday the regions
on edge as Israel awaits for retaliation
from Iran after the killing of Hamas
political leader Ismael hania in tan
negotiators want to use a plan put
together by the Biden administration at
the end of May and endorsed by the UN
Security Council this plan calls for a 6
we ceasefire in Gaza Hamas would release
its remaining Israeli hostages in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners
Israel would allow unlimited Aid
deliveries and its forces would withdraw
from the territory but Hamas says it is
losing faith in the US as a mediator and
will not attend the talks the top
official in Qatar for the Palestinian
militant group whose October 7 Terror
attacks sparked the war said Hamas would
still hear from
negotiators we expect to be told by the
mediators that Israel has accepted what
is being offered and any meeting should
be based on talking about implementation
mechanisms and setting deadlines rather
than negotiating something new otherwise
Hamas finds no reason to
participate Muhammad had left his family
to pick up the birth certificates of his
newborn
twins now he's in a morg where his
children's bodies lie alongside his
wife's wrapped in plastic
bags killed in an Israeli bombardment in
central Gaza the Twins were just 4 days
old I was away to get the birth
certificates for the babies my wife gave
birth the day before yesterday I didn't
even have time to celebrate them she
gave birth by cesarian section and she
was still tired and couldn't
walk re Abu haa is only 3 months old her
face covered in cuts and
bruises she's the only one of her family
to survive an Israeli strike
that hit her home on
Monday the baby was breastfed by her
mother we've been trying to feed her
formula since this morning but she won't
accept it because she's used to her
mother's
milk after 10 months of war in Gaza the
strip's Hamas run health authority says
almost 40,000 Palestinians have been
killed leaving many grieving families
and many children without their parents
Israel says it's mil tries to avoid
harming civilians and blames their
deaths on Hamas that operates in dense
residential
areas they can't beat us on the
battlefield but they think that they can
beat us in PR terms it is Hamas that is
responsible for any uh civilian
casualties uh in uh Gaza uh they're not
upset that there are civilian casualties
they wish there were 10 times more
because it's a key part of their
strategy and as Israel increases the
pressure on Hamas and its leadership in
its response to the October 7th Terror
attacks more Gans are likely to pay a
heavy
price many here will be watching and
hoping that ceasefire talks slated for
this week are not abandoned and that
some kind of deal can be reached to
offer them some respite in this
Relentless
War Israeli Peace activist and author
Gerson Basin negotiated with with Hamas
on the release of Israeli soldier at
gillad shalet back in 2011 and welcome
back to uh DW Gerson um we've been here
many times before is there any reason to
think a a breakthrough might happen this
time the only reason to think that a
breakthrough might happen is the joint
letter that was issued by the three
mediators President Biden president aisi
from Egypt and the Amir from Qatar stani
they seem more determined they made what
can be read as an ultimatum and they
said that they would put bridging
proposals on the table in more than 10
months of War we haven't yet seen the
mediators play such a proactive role the
Israeli response is that the heads of
the negotiating team are going to Doha
that's the head of the mosad the head of
the shinb the Israeli internal security
and the representative of the Israeli
Army and they spent most of the day
today with prime minister nany going
over their instructions perhaps their
limitations um Hamas is not attending
because Hamas and Israel don't sit
together but the Hamas leadership is in
Doha and they are communicating
regularly with the Hamas leadership in
Gaza and the Qatari and Egyptian
mediators coordinate and speak to the
Hamas leadership so this is an important
negotiation and we'll see how forceful
the mediators will be they all have
carrots and sticks that they can bring
to the table and from what we hear from
them they are saying it's time for this
war to end and it's time to bring the
Israeli hostages home all right so just
just to be clear this is the the fact
that Hamas the Hamas team are not at the
negotiations that's that's usual because
they won't be in the same room but they
are taking
part they have never been together with
the Israelis in the same room the talks
are probably happening in Doha because
the Hamas exiled leadership is in Doha
and it's easy for the kataris to
communicate with them they communicate
with them on a regular basis as do the
Egyptians so even tactically if Hamas
said we're not participating in this
round of negotiations they are they
cannot not be participating because the
qataris and the Egyptians will deliver
to them whatever comes out of the room
when they're sitting with the Israelis
so as the world hold its breath waiting
for Iran to retaliate against Israel for
the killing of Ismael hania Iranian
officials have said that Iran will
attack Israel directly if Thursday's
talks in Qatar don't reach an agreement
what do you make of that
threat well first of all there's an
additional incentive right now on the
table to reach an agreement if Iran is
sincere about what they said that if
there is a ceasefire agreement reached
then they will not attack Israel that
attack has the possibility of spilling
over into a wider Regional War we don't
know what the attack would be what would
be hit and how many casualties there
would be but if would be significant and
severe catastrophic from an Israeli
point of view there would be an Israeli
response to it we have American and
British warships surrounding uh this
region in in the Mediterranean in the
Red Sea in the Persian Arab Gulf U ready
to take action if Israel is attacked we
we really don't want this to spill over
into a much wider conflict and therefore
it's really important that these talks
in do lead to a ceasefire there are some
inaccuracies about the way that it was
presented at the beginning of the show
but it does really matter because I
think that the mediators will put a new
proposal on the table which should talk
about a 4 to six we period that would
end the war bringing Israeli withdrawal
and returning the 115 Israeli hostages
those who are alive and those who are
not alive good talking to you thank you
for talking us through that so clearly
Israeli Peace activist and author gersan
Baskin thank you